Global Change Master Directory (GCMD) Keywords | Earthdata
Home
Skip to main content
About
Data
Collaborate
Learn
Earth Observation Data
Find Data
International Directory Network (IDN)
Global Change Master Directory (GCMD) Keywords
GCMD Keyword Links
Access the GCMD KeywordsSubmit a Keyword RequestKeyword Release AnnouncementsGCMD Keyword ForumGCMD Keyword Viewer
More GCMD Resources
CEOS International Directory Network (IDN)Common Metadata RepositoryESDIS Standards Office Keyword Governance and Community Guide DocumentGCMD Keywords Community Forum
Global Change Master Directory (GCMD) Keywords
Global Change Master Directory (GCMD) Keywords are a hierarchical set of controlled Earth Science vocabularies that help ensure Earth science data, services, and variables are described in a consistent and comprehensive manner and allow for the precise searching of metadata and subsequent retrieval of data, services, and variables. Initiated over twenty years ago, GCMD Keywords are periodically analyzed for relevancy and will continue to be refined and expanded in response to user needs.
The categories of GCMD Keywords are as follows.
Earth Science
Earth Science Services
Data Centers/Service Providers
Projects
Instruments/Sensors
Platforms/Sources
Locations
Horizontal Data Resolution
Vertical Data Resolution
Temporal Data Resolution
URL Content Types
Granule Data Formats
Measurement Names
Chronostratigraphic Units
The information provided on this page defines how GCMD Keywords are structured, used and accessed. It also provides information on how users can participate in the further development of the keywords.
GCMD Keyword Forum
The GCMD Keyword Forum, now part of the Earthdata Forum, provides keyword users and metadata providers with an area for discussion of topics related to GCMD Keywords. Participants are invited to use this forum to ask questions, submit keyword requests, discuss trade-offs, and track the status of keyword requests.
More Information About the Keywords
GCMD Keyword Structure
GCMD Keyword Structure
GCMD Keywords are organized using a multi-level hierarchical structure. This hierarchical structure provides a framework by which concepts can be classified and related. The Earth Science and Science Services keyword sets use the following hierarchical structure:
Category > Topic > Term > Variable > Detailed Variable
Categories and Topics represent disciplines and high level concepts. Terms and Variables define subject areas and parameters. Detailed Variables are uncontrolled values that can be added by users to more specifically describe data.
All other keyword sets use hierarchies designed for a specific concept. For example, "Instruments" uses Short Name > Long Name. Short name and long name define the name of the instrument used to acquire the data.
Earth Science Keywords Structure
The Earth Science Keywords
have a six-level keyword structure with the option for a seventh uncontrolled field. Category and Topic levels define how the keywords are organized and the associated Earth science discipline within the hierarchy. The Term and Variables levels define the subject area, measured variables/parameters, and the hierarchical-type relationship for the subject area.
Keyword Level
Example
Category
Earth Science
Topic
Atmosphere
Term
Weather Events
Variable Level 1
SubtropicalCyclones
Variable Level 2
SubtropicalDepression
Variable Level 3
SubtropicalDepression Track
Detailed Variable
(Uncontrolled Keyword)
Earth Science Services Keywords Structure
The Earth Science Services Keywords have a four-level keyword structure with the option for a fifth uncontrolled field. Category and Topic levels define how the controlled keywords are organized and the associated Earth Science Services discipline associated with the keyword in the hierarchy. The Term and Variable levels define the subject area, the type of software/service being described, and the hierarchical-type relationship for the subject area.
Keyword Level
Example
Service Category
Earth Science Services
Service Topic
Data Analysis and Visualization
Service Term
Geographic Information Systems
Service Variable
Web-Based Geographic Information Systems
Detailed Variable
(Uncontrolled Keyword)
Data Center/Service Provider Keywords Structure
The Data Center/Service Provider Keywords have a short name and long name that define the data center, service provider, organization, or institution responsible for distributing the data or developing the service.
Keyword Level
Example
Short Name
LP DAAC
Long Name
Land Processes Distributed Active Archive Center
Project Keyword Structure
The Project Keywords have a short name and long name that define the name of the scientific program, field campaign, or project from which the data were collected.
Keyword Level
Example
Short Name
ESIP
Long Name
Earth Science Information Partners
Instrument/Sensor Keyword Structure
The Instrument/Sensor Keywords have a short name and long name that define the name of the instrument used to acquire the data.
Keyword Level
Example
Short Name
MODIS
Long Name
Moderate-Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer
Platform/Source Keyword Structure
The Platform/Source Keywords have a short name and long name that define the name of the platform used to acquire the data.
Keyword Level
Example
Short Name
Aqua
Long Name
Earth Observing System, Aqua
Location Keyword Structure
The Location Keywords have a five-level keyword structure with the option for a sixth uncontrolled field and define the name of a place on Earth, a location within Earth, a vertical location, or a location outside of the Earth.
Keyword Level
Example
Location Category
Continent
Location Type
North America
Location Subregion 1
United States of America
Location Subregion 2
Maryland
Location Subregion 3
Baltimore
Detailed Location
(Uncontrolled Keyword)
Horizontal Data Resolution Keyword Structure
The Horizontal Data Resolution Keywords have a range structure and define the horizontal resolution of the data.
Keyword Level
Example
Resolution Range
1 km - < 10 km
Vertical Data Resolution Keyword Structure
The Vertical Data Resolution Keywords have a range structure and define the vertical resolution of the data.
Keyword Level
Example
Resolution Range
1 km - < 10 km
Temporal Data Resolution Keyword Structure
The Temporal Data Resolution Keywords have a range structure and define the vertical resolution of the data.
Keyword Level
Example
Resolution Range
1 minute - < 1 hour
URL Content Type Keyword Structure
The URL Content Type Keywords have a type-subtype structure and define the type of URL being referenced.
Keyword Level
Example
Type
Get Data
Sub-Type
Earthdata Search
Granule Data Formats Keyword Structure
The Granule Data Formats Keywords have a one-level keyword structure and represent the format of the data that is distributed by the data center.
Keyword Level
Example
Granule_Data_Format
GRIB
Measurement Names Keyword Structure
The Measurement Names Keywords have a three-level keyword structure and define an observable property, usually geophysical, geo-biophysical, physical, or chemical.
Keyword Level
Example
Context_Medium
atmosphere
Object
air
Quantity
pressure_anomaly
Chronostratigraphic Units Types Keyword Structure
The Chronostratigraphic Keywords have a five-level keyword structure and define the geologic time of the data.
Keyword
Example
Eon
Phanerozoic
Era
Cenozoic
Period
Neogene
Epoch
Miocene
Stage
Tortonian
Back To Top
Community Use of GCMD Keywords
Community Use of GCMD Keywords
NASA’s Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS) as well as numerous other U.S. and international agencies, research universities, and scientific institutions use GCMD Keywords as an authoritative vocabulary, taxonomy, or thesaurus to describe Earth science data, services, and visualizations. Many of these organizations also use GCMD Keywords to create ontologies for the Semantic Web, and to search and access Earth science data within online metadata catalogues. A representative list of organizations using GCMD Keywords is shown below.
Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Data Center
Australian Institute of Management (AIM)
Australian Research Data Commons
Biological and Chemical Oceanography Data Office (BCO-DMO)
Bureau of Land Management (BLM)
British Oceanographic Data Centre (BODC)
Committee on Earth Observation Satellites (CEOS)
Community Inventory of EarthCube Resources for Geosciences Interoperability (CINERGI)
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) Marine and Atmospheric Research, Australia
EnviDat
European Global Earth Observation System of Systems (EuroGEOSS)
Earth Science Information Partners (ESIP)
French Polar Institute/Institut Polaire Français Paul-Emile Victor (IPEV)
GeoConnections Discovery Portal Canada
GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences
Global Change Information System (GCIS)
Global Observing Systems Information Center (GOSIC)
Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics Project (GLOBEC)
Gulf of Maine Council (GOMC)
Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA)
Marine Explorer
Marine Scotland Science (MSS)
Maryland Department of Natural Resources (MD DNR)
Metadata Management Tool (MMT)
Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI)
Nansen Environmental and Remote Sensing Center (NERSC)
National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology (INGV), Italy
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC)
Navy Meteorology and Oceanography (METOC), Australia
NASA EOSDIS Data Centers (DAACs)
NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL)
National Institute of Polar Research (NIPR)
NCAR UCAR Research Data Archive
Netherlands Polar Data Center
Norwegian Polar Institute (Norsk Polarinstitutt)
Norwegian Polar Data Centre
Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL)
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI)
Ronin Institute
Standing Committee on Antarctic Data Management (SCADM)
Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute (SMHI)
Terrestrial Ecosystem Research Network (TERN), Australia
University of Manitoba
University of Tasmania, Australia
University of Tennessee, Knoxville
U.S. Antarctic Program Data Center (USAP-DC)
U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute (WHOI)
World Data Center for Soils (WDC-Soils)
Back To Top
GCMD Keyword Governance and Community Guide Document
GCMD Keyword Governance and Community Guide Document
The GCMD Keyword Governance and Community Guide Document, Version 1.0, is intended to provide the community with a comprehensive resource that describes the governance structures and process for reviewing proposed changes to GCMD Keywords. The document includes an overview of the structure of the keywords, requirements and recommendations to consider when requesting keyword changes, and instructions for submitting change requests. The process described in this document will be the basis of all future GCMD Keyword reviews. The community is invited to provide feedback.
The Change Process Overview diagram conveys the end to end process of a keyword including initial request, triage, approval, notification, and implementation.
Back To Top
Additional Information
Contact GCMD User Support for questions, comments, or technical issues regarding GCMD Keywords.
Subscribe to the GCMD/IDN Interoperability Email List
to receive keyword release announcements.
To subscribe: e-mail ceos-idn-interop-join@lists.nasa.gov (no subject or text is required).
To unsubscribe: e-mail ceos-idn-interop-leave@lists.nasa.gov (no subject or text is required).
The GCMD Keywords should be cited as:
Global Change Master Directory (GCMD). 2021. GCMD Keywords, Version 12.2. Greenbelt, MD: Earth Science Data and Information System, Earth Science Projects Division, Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). URL (GCMD Keyword Forum Page): https://forum.earthdata.nasa.gov/app.php/tag/GCMD+Keywords
Page Last Updated: Nov 14, 2021 at 9:39 PM EST
ABOUT
DATA
COLLABORATE
LEARN
USER RESOURCES
SUPPORT
NASA Links
NASA Official: Stephen Berrick
Web Privacy Policy
Data and Information Policy
Communications Policy
Freedom of Information Act
USA.gov
Sitemap